FOCUS #165: Pricing Quantity (#225)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: supporting_content/metrics/pricingquantity.md

|:---------------------|:--------------------------|:-------------|-----------|
| Compute Usage        | 100                       | 1.0          | $100      |
| Tax on Compute Usage | 1                         | 20           | $20       |
| TOTAL                | 101                       | 21           | $120      |
NOTE: Skews average of Unit price

Example C
| Description          | Pricing Quantity          | Unit Price   | Total     | 
|:---------------------|:--------------------------|:-------------|-----------|
| Compute Usage        | 100                       | 1.0          | $100      |
| Tax on Compute Usage | NULL                      | NULL         | $20       |
| TOTAL                | 100                       | 1.0          | $120      |
NOTE: Preferred option?

## Example provider mappings

Current column mappings found in available data sets:

| Provider  | Data set                     | Column                   |
|:----------|:-----------------------------|:-------------------------|
| AWS       | Cost and Usage Report        | lineItem/UsageAmount (NOTE: how to handle reservation/TotalReservedUnits|

> | GCP       | BigQuery Billing             | usage.amount_in_pricing_units (NOTE: usage.amount provides QuantityInUsageUnit) |

Reviewer: If the naming convention has indeed changed from `Quantity in * Unit` to `* Quantity`, then the docs in this PR will need a scrub to replace any existing use of the old convention, such as in this table here.

Reviewer 2: resolved. thanks for pointing this out :)

## References and Resources

### AWS

- [Pricing details - AWS Cost and Usage Reports](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cur/latest/userguide/pricing-columns.html)

### GCP

- [Structure of Detailed data export | Cloud Billing](https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/export-data-bigquery-tables/detailed-usage)

### Microsoft

- [Understand usage details fields - Microsoft Cost Management](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/automate/understand-usage-details-fields)

### OCI

- [Cost and Usage Reports Overview](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Billing/Concepts/usagereportsoverview.htm)

## Discussion / Scratch space

 - Do we need to support negative values in the case of credits / refunds? (currently assumed yes)
 - AWS issue “For size-flexible Reserved Instances, use the reservation/TotalReservedUnits column instead.”
 - OCI seems to support separate billed quantities with an overage calculation… needs investigation.
 - How will this apply for marketplace transactions…. What behavior do we expect for prices and quantities for marketplace purchases (and refunds)

> ### ChargeType 'Tax'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### ChargeCategory 'Tax'
```

#### GCP
 - Couldn’t find tax-related cost records in case of one small GCP account
 - HS Data provided samples:
     - usage.amount_in_pricing_units values: 1.0, 2.0, 4.0
     - usage.pricing_unit: count

#### AWS
 - Tax-related records contain:
     - lineItem/UsageAmount: 1
     - pricing/unit: null

#### Azure
 - Tax-related record are not available in billing data

##### OCI
 - Tax-related record are not available in billing data

## Example usage scenarios

> - See [Appendix: Pricing Support - UCs and Data samples Spreadsheet](../apendix/pricingsupport.md) for various UC scenarios

Reviewer: Will this link work in the final version?  At the very least, "apendix" should be "appendix".

Reviewer: Also, would this appendix show a comparison of usage unit and pricing unit?  I think such an example would be very useful to the layman practitioner.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for pointing this out :) 
- Issues with links are resolved.
- The appendix and the Google spreadsheet require a bit more attention

Reviewer 3: For now, fine to link to google docs.

# Column: PricingQuantity

> ## Example treatment for non-metered charges (e.g. Tax Treatment)

Reviewer: Why are these examples here?  I'm sure they merit inclusion, but I don't immediately follow, and I would just want to see a bit of verbiage explaining what's happening with these Examples.  

Also, what does "treatment" mean?  That term isn't mentioned in the spec portion.  A quick Google does indeed suggest that "tax treatment" is a concept, but I've spent a ton of time with financial data and I've never seen it before.  So, if not defined here, maybe worth inclusion in the glossary for us dummies?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Example PricingQuantity values for charges where ChargeCategory is "Tax"
```
The section sub-title and content is a little jarring - for a while I thought it was a bad merge artifact of content from ChargeCategory (which conveniently has no examples for "Tax)
This looks more like discussion/scratch space content, which was used to derive the acceptable value for `PricingQuantity` when `ChargeType == Tax`. 

Suggestion would be to move it to that section.

Example A
| Description          | Pricing Quantity          | Unit Price   | Total     |
|:---------------------|:--------------------------|:-------------|-----------|
| Compute Usage        | 100                       | 1.0          | $100      |
| Tax on Compute Usage | 100                       | 0.2          | $20       |
| TOTAL                | 200                       | 1.2          | $120      |
NOTE: Double counting of hours

Example B
| Description          | Pricing Quantity          | Unit Price   | Total     |
|:---------------------|:--------------------------|:-------------|-----------|
| Compute Usage        | 100                       | 1.0          | $100      |
| Tax on Compute Usage | 1                         | 20           | $20       |

> | TOTAL                | 101                       | 21           | $120      |

Reviewer 5: Unit Price is not a column that can be summed because by doing so, the result violates this clause of the column definition "When unit prices are not null, multiplying PricingQuantity by a unit price MUST produce a result equal to the corresponding cost metric."  I see the below note and the one in Example A, but my recommendation for these examples would be to either calculated Unit Price (weighted average) on the TOTAL row or leave it NULL.

Should the total column be [Billed Cost](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/blob/working_draft/specification/metrics/billedcost.md)/BilledCost?

Reviewer 2: We assumed that this would be addressed in detail as part of the SKU/SKU Price discussion. This section contains notes from our discussion, and we marked Example 3 as the preferred/suggested one. We made some changes based on your suggestions and moved it to the discussion/scratch space chapter.

Please let me know if I can close this conversation.
Thanks!

NOTE: Skews average of Unit price

Example C
| Description          | Pricing Quantity          | Unit Price   | Total     |
|:---------------------|:--------------------------|:-------------|-----------|
| Compute Usage        | 100                       | 1.0          | $100      |
| Tax on Compute Usage | NULL                      | NULL         | $20       |
| TOTAL                | 100                       | 1.0          | $120      |
NOTE: Preferred option?

## Example provider mappings

Current column mappings found in available data sets:

| Provider  | Data set                     | Column                   |
|:----------|:-----------------------------|:-------------------------|
| AWS       | Cost and Usage Report        | lineItem/UsageAmount (NOTE: how to handle reservation/TotalReservedUnits|

> | GCP       | BigQuery Billing             | usage.amount_in_pricing_units (NOTE: usage.amount provides UsageQuantity) |

Reviewer: Tiny change, but it was suggested on a PR of mine, so:

```suggestion
| GCP       | BigQuery Billing Export            | usage.amount_in_pricing_units (NOTE: usage.amount provides UsageQuantity) |
```

# Column: PricingQuantity

## Example provider mappings

Current column mappings found in available data sets:

| Provider  | Data set                     | Column                   |
|:----------|:-----------------------------|:-------------------------|
| AWS       | Cost and Usage Report        | lineItem/UsageAmount (NOTE: how to handle reservation/TotalReservedUnits|

> | GCP       | BigQuery Billing Export            | usage.amount_in_pricing_units (NOTE: usage.amount provides UsageQuantity) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| GCP       | BigQuery Billing Export    | usage.amount_in_pricing_units (NOTE: usage.amount provides UsageQuantity) |
```

> | Microsoft | Cost Details                 | Not available (NOTE: While Quantity is the closest, it provides UsageQuantity and not PricingQuantity) |

Reviewer 6: Interesting. I thought Azure quantity was closer to PricingQuantity than to UsageQuantity. I would be interested by any link or documentation.

Indeed, in case of reservations, Azure documents to calculate on-demand equivalent price by multiplying UnitPrice by Quantity. Reference: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/reservations/understand-reserved-instance-usage-ea

Reviewer 2: I thought so too, but Michael pointed this out, and he is the authority on Azure :) The FOCUS Converters WG will be reviewing the suggested provider mappings in detail.
